Project Logistics – Version 1
Due Dates
Midpoint check: Oct. 22, 11:59 pm
Final Project: Dec. 3, 11:59 pm
Late Policy: No late project will be accepted.
The project is fairly large (2000 lines of code or more). Please start early.
There will be a midpoint check. You are supposed to implement about half of the lines for your
project (500 lines or more), which can pass compilation (see suggestions later). This is worth 5%
of your course grade.
TA for Project
For all questions related to the project, please contact TA Muyang Li. His email address and
office hour information will be listed on the course front page of Canvas.
Group Size
• Three students per group. Four is also fine. Please form your project group ASAP.
• It will be great if you find your own partners. If you need help to find project partners,
please ask the TA for help.
• After you form your project group, one of the members should sign up your project group
on Canvas.
Project Submission
• Submit on Canvas for both the midpoint check and the final project.
• Combine all your files into one archive and/or compressed file with winzip on Windows
PC or with the tar command on UNIX/Linux machines. An example:
tar cvf proj1.tar foo.java bar.java
Here, proj1.tar is the archive file, and foo.java and bar.java are your source files.
• The zip or tar file should contain all source files, all files needed to compile your
program, and all files needed to run your program. Your zip file should also contain files
for starting your remote processes, even if you use the files from the course web site
without changing anything. Your zip file should not contain executable files or object
files which can be generated by compiling your program. It should not contain
Common.cfg, PeerInfo.cfg, and any other sample files for testing.
Demo
• After the submission, each group will show a demo of their project. This will take the
form of 5-8 minutes recorded video. You can submit the video demo on Canvas if the file
size is not too large. Otherwise, you can store the video on onedirve@uf and share a link
in your submission.
• For the demo, the data file to be exchanged should be at least 20Mbytes. The piece size
will be 16384 bytes. The required free disk size depends on how you handle partial
temporary files. You may need more than 150Mbytes. Please make sure that you have
enough free disk space for your program to distribute a 20 Mbyte file from a peer to five
other peers.
• For the demo, you should use multiple machines.
• To get a high score, it is very important to meet the requirements described in the
implementation specifics. Writing logs is also important.
• More details will come later.
Questions
• If you have difficulty understanding the protocol description, you may search the
BitTorrent protocol description on the Internet and study it. There are many sources of
information that explain the protocol. Then, you can come back and read the project
description again.
Grading
Each project group will receive a common grade first. After that, there may be an upward or
downward adjustment for each group member depending on the amount of effort spent.
Partial Credits for Project
If your group can't get the project to work, please document what you have done and who has
done what in the readme file and explain your situation during the demo. This helps each of you
to receive partial credits based on your code.
Sample Files
On Canvas, under the direction ‘Files/Project’, you can find three sample files related to
the project.
Sample Client.java, Sample Server.java: These are self-explanatory.
project_config_file_small.zip, project_config_file_large.zip: Two
sets of sample configuration files and data file to be exchanged. One set has a small data file,
around 2 MB; the other has a large data file, more than 20MB. You can play with both scenarios.
To demonstrate choking, unchoking, and optimistic unchoking, the data file should be at least
20MB, or perhaps larger.
References
There are many online resources for JAVA and network programming. Feel free to use those
resources. You might have to browse many and select the ones that are suitable for you.
The following book is very good.
Elliotte Rusty Harold. Java Network Programming, 4th edition. 2013. O'Reilly Media, Inc.
Some chapters of the 3rd edition can be found online. See here.
Academic honesty
You should not have someone else to write your code or copy the code from someone else. But,
you are allowed to use the Internet resources and learn how to do network programming in
general. Anyone who violates the above rule will get penalized. Please note that there are tools
for us to check the similarity between two codes.
FAQ
Q1. Can I implement the project on Windows environment?
You may. But, in the end, you must be able to demonstrate your project on different machines.
Q2. Can I assume that the subdirectories for peers have already been set up before I run the
peer processes?
Yes. You may create subdirectories with proper names before you run your peer processes. That
saves you the burden for managing subdirectories in your program. See the relevant discussion in
the project description document.
Q3. How many TCP connections should be used between two peers?
The design may vary. For instance, you may use one TCP connection for each pair of peers.
Consequently, a peer maintains only one socket for each neighboring peer. However, you may
have two threads associated to the socket, one for getting messages from the neighboring peer and
the other for sending messages to the peer. The socket will be shared by those two threads.
Q5. How is the ‘have’ message different from the ‘bitfield’ message?
The ‘bitfield’ message is useful to inform a neighboring peer the availability of many file chunks.
You can use it at the start of a process. The ‘have’ message is used to inform a neighbor the
availability of a single chunk. It is useful for incremental update between the neighboring peers.
For instance, when a peer receives a new chunk, it can use the ‘have’ message to inform other
neighbors.
Q6. How can I submit the final project?
Please read the section "Project Submission" carefully.
Q7. What should I submit for midpoint check?
You are asked to submit 800 lines or more of compiled code. That’s all. The objective is to make
sure you have started working on it.
Q8. Should each project group submit only one copy of the code?
Yes. Only one of your teammates needs to submit the project (midpoint or final) on Canvas.
Please list your group members in a readme file.
Q9. The project looks complicated. How should I start?
I recommend you first read the project description document CAREFULLY. It describes a
protocol. The whole project may look complicated, but fundamentally, each peer just sends,
receives, reads, replies messages through TCP connections based on the protocol described in that
document. After several reading, you will have a broad picture of the project in your head.
Q10. Can I use my own machine to run the project code?
During development, it is easier to work on your local machine. You can run several peer
processes on your machine. For the demo, you are asked to run your code on different machines.